After great effort, you are able to make the spell function correctly but it takes 2 spell slots instead. Use the spell again.
A tree rips out of the ground and is flung over the horizon.
The spell hits you instead of the target (normal saves apply). Roll for damage and apply it to yourself.
Your attack hits your ally closest to the target. Roll for damage and apply it to your party member.
You are so wrapped up in your casting that you forget you are fighting a battle. All enemies have advantage on their attack rolls against you until the end of your next turn.
Your spell creates a large plume of smoke obscuring your location.
Your spell backfires, creating an explosion and causing you to fall and bump your head. Roll a DC 15 Con save; on failure you take [[1d6]] bludgeoning damage, [[1d6]] thunder damage, and are knocked unconscious for 1 minute or until you receive damage from any source. On success take half damage and you remain conscious.
You are embarassed, but nothing remarkable happens. (That you know about....)
The spell blows up in your face causing you to lose concentration.
Your spell is converted to a summon monster spell of the same level (effective level of a sphere effect is equal to half its caster level, to a maximum of 9th for the purpose of determining this spell). The monster attacks you.
Your target increases one size category for [[1d4]] rounds.
On their next turn, your target may give you one suggestion as per the suggestion spell. You are considered to have failed your Will save against this suggestion.
The spell blows up in your face. You are deafened until healed.
Your target becomes invisible for [[1d4]] rounds.
You are thrown [[1d6]]x10 feet into the air.
You are teleported the nearest square adjacent to the target.
You become entangled in your gear until you spend a standard action to free yourself.
You provoke attacks of opportunity from all nearby foes.
Somewhere in the world, in a field, a tree sprouts and grows to full size in less than a minute. The people/creatures nearby think this is a divine miracle and begin a new religion.
Divine Intervention! Someone's God doesn't like you and randomly redirects the spell's effect(s).
You completely miss but damn did you look fabulous!
Your skin turns a vibrant shade of blue. A Remove Curse spell can end this effect.
You grow a long beard of feathers that remain in place until you sneeze, at which point the feathers fly off of your face.