The attack rebounds and hits you instead. Roll for damage and apply it to yourself.
The attack hits your closest party member. Roll for damage and apply it to your party member.
You trip and fall. You are now prone until your next turn.
You reach out to hit your enemy and instead caress it's cheek. It looks uncomfortable.
You overextend yourself going for the kill. Your opponent gains advantage on their next attack roll.
Roll an Strength / Athletics check DC 15, or your weapon flies 12 feet out of your hand in a random direction. If you have any movement and a bonus action left you can go and pick it up. In doing so you provoke an opportunity attack from anyone in the area, starting with your most immediate opponent. (Otherwise you could simply draw a second weapon, if you have one, using a bonus action).
The strain of your attack causes you to pull a muscle. Roll a DC 15 Constitution Saving Throw. If you fail, you have disadvantage in attack rolls and ability checks requiring upper body strength until you have completed a long rest or receive magical healing.
Either through fear, excitement or simply needing to go, you soil yourself. 75% chance it’s only pee.
Your weapon cracks as it hits, sending a shock through your hands that causes you to drop the weapon.
Your enemy’s taunts distract you, and your swing is ineffective. You lose your action for the next round as you try to gather your senses.
Your weapon breaks. You can no longer use it. Delete it from your inventory.
Your opponent blocks your attack with such force that you are staggered and it gains advantage on it's next attack.
Your opponent blocks your attack and counter attacks. Roll damage for your weapon and apply it to yourself.
You start yelling wildly at your opponent(s) curisng their bloodline. All attacks will be directed against you for the next round.
That person insulted your mother! This cannot go unpunished. Bullrush a random person.
You develop an irritational hatred for a random person involved in the encounter for [[1d3]] rounds your sole focus is hurting them.
You misjudge your opponent(s) who take advantage. Attacks of opportunity against you.
You're fed up of using this weapon. Discard it and draw a second one. If you don't have a second one it's time to go bare knuckle.
You are convinced you are a ferocious dragon. Forfeit your next round of actions as you bellow a challenge to all your opponents. Roll an Intimidation check (disadvantaged as they can clearly see you aren't a dragon!)
So confident are you in your fighting ability that for the next round you will fight with your eyes closed (Disdavantage to attack and lose dex bonus to AC for 1 round).
Your attack hits the target, but deals minimum damage.
Your weapon is stuck in a nearby surface. DC 20 Strength check to free it as a standard action.